angular: 

it is a frontend javascript framework for building interactive, modern web user interfaces
it's also a collection of tools and feature like CLI (eg. ng serve, ng serve --open, etc), Debugging tools, IDE plugin\

why use angular instead of using "just javascript"?

for trivial websites and web apps, you would not need angular.But frameworks like Angular do really shine
as your applications become more complex because they simplify the process of building complex, highly interactive web user interfaces.

reason: 
1. you can write declarative code with angular instead of imperative code ( step by step instructions) like Vanilla javascript

components in angular:
you build a component tree. 
one angular application = one component tree

eg:                         app component
								|	|					|
				Header Component     User component 	Tasks component			

components are custom HTML elements

Why components?

1. Modular Applications:
break up complex apps into simple building blocks
split up responsibilities and concerns
build a component once and reuse it often as needed.

2. Better Dev Process
Assign diff team members to diff components
Share components and logic across the team
reduce dependencies


Angular has some OOP concepts & principles

Angular uses TypeScript (not vanilla javascript)

Typescript is a Javascript superset - an extension of JavaScript. It extends JS syntax to support strong and strict typing. Unlike vanilla js, TS enforces types and prevents unexpected value type changes

Easier dev with typescript: 
with TS, you can often catch errors early on during development. 
without TS, those errors would be undetected and then posibly only surface at runtime when application crashes or behaves incorrectly.


Angular team releases -> major releases every 6 months
despite labeled as major releases, these releases do not break your code & " change the framework"

2016 - angular 2 released

2017 - angular 4 released (v3 skipped)

2017 - version 5 releaes

-: - angular 6 - 13 released 

2022 - angular 14 and 15 released: angular 14 introduces "standalone components"

2023 - angular 16 is released. : angular 16 introduces signals

But to follow along with exactly the same setup as shown over the next lectures, you should create new projects via ng new first-angular-app --no-zoneless.

In the next lecture, I just run ng new first-angular-app - but with Angular v21+, this will give you a project that is configured in a "zoneless" mode, a mode we'll explore in detail a little later in the course. Therefore, to get started, I recommend creating projects with the --no-zoneless flag.

latest as per 2026: v21 is the stable version latest


create new angular app: ng new first-angular-app --no-zoneless
start the app: npm start


folder structure:

all the files you find in the top level of your project are configuration files

package files: manage the dependencies of your application.
we will use features from these dependencies in our code

angular.json: contains extra configuration for angular CLI and angular provided tools in general. You dont need to change anything in this files

.editorconfig: contains some rules for the code editorconfig
.gitignore: relevant if you are using gitignore

src folder -> 
app folder: here you will build angular components
naming convention standard: app.component.html, css, ts. 

styles.css file: global styles across all components
index.html: main html file which will be loaded when visitors visit your websites

main.ts : it will be the first code file, to be executed when the angular application loads in the browser of the visitors, i.e. the code of this will be executed first

assets folder: store images to be used

app folder: in this folder you will build and combine all the angular components


npm install: install all those dependencies mentioned in the package.json
need to do it only once


## npm start: under the hood it executes "npm serve"
